Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to talk about the temporal dead zone.
All right, now, before diving into this lecture, I got to say that the temporal dead zone is not
a walking dead reference.
It is a programming thing.
It doesn't relate to walking dead or right or any kind of zombie movie.
So it is just a programming thing.
And in this course, it is a JavaScript thing that we are going to go over right now.
I just want to show you I just wanted to give you this specification at some point in the course and
why not here?
So this is a model international dot org slash dash to Sixta slash and this is ECMAScript 2020 language
specification.
And the most popular implementation of this specification is JavaScript.
Now, this is ECMAScript.
That's where the E to 2015 is 2016, all the way to 2020.
All of these different versions of JavaScript they get their name from.
So you can call it E, you can grab the E and then the S and then you can call it ESX.
iOS seven is eight all the way to 11.
Or you could go ahead and say E.
S 2015, 2016, which is the proper way of saying, OK, we have talked about this in our I think it
was second chapter of this course way like before.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you where we can find Letton Corsicans declaration.
But you should go over this spec if you're really serious about learning JavaScript and mastering JavaScript.
There is a lot of things.
There is like literally a ton of things here and you don't need to like, go ahead, Line-by-line.
Whenever you hit a hurdle or you hit a bump, make sure you check it in the specification, because
according to this specification, JavaScript is created.
So JavaScript is created, JavaScript behaves.
According to this ECMAScript specification.
It is a JavaScript standard.
So you should know what the standard is.
And everything is everything that's written here is the authentic is the most authentic like like decision
that is built on JavaScript.
Okay, so this is the go to resource if you want to know how things work in JavaScript.
OK, so there is going to be a lot of like weird stuff in here, but I'm going to make sure I'm going
to try to go ahead and like explain it in simplest terms possible.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is we went into Chapter 13, ECMAScript language statements and declarations.
So we want to talk about those.
And I'm just going to click here and we can see that we have declarations and the variable statement.
So this is thirteen point three, right.
So, you know what?
What I'm going to do is I'm just going to give you the spec in here as well.
So so this is the original link for the spec.
You can go ahead and check it out and you will find what it what it what it has.
All the chapters are at your disposal.
All right.
So in here, what we have is lead and const declarations because they're different than Vahdat and they
are they came after the as of 2015 is 2015.
That's why they are inside like in one section.
So here is where I'm going to prove to you.
Prove to you that let and can they do hoist but they hoist in a different way because we know how var
hoists not understood way, but the original way is that we have to process even though var is one statement,
we have two passes for that statement.
The first pass is that we find the identifier and the scope, which is the completion pass.
And the second pass is whenever we get to the execution, which is the second pass, we grab the value
of that identifier if it is in the target reference and we allocate a space in memory to it.
So this is how variable declarations are getting executed.
A verbal declaration is an executed executable piece of a line of code or a statement in code.
That's why we go over them very, very deeply, because this is how all everything in JavaScript works.
But the misconception, another there are a lot of them.
But another one says declarations using leadon const are not.
Are also not hoisted, it means that there are not two passes to let on, cause it means that whenever
you say that I don't know, like let
like no equal one to three, it is like a once in it is a statement and it has only one pass.
But that is not accurate, even though it is let or consed.
That statement also has two passes.
Right.
And it says it here.
So it says Let uncaused declarations define variables that are Scob to their running execution contexts,
lexical environment.
That's why we see a lot of lexical environment, because JavaScript has a lexical environment.
JavaScript is a lexically scoped language language.
So that part is proven as well, even though it was clear the variables are created.
Now, this is the part that we are interested in.
The variables are created when they're containing lexical environment is in instantiated, but may not
be accessed in any way until the variables lexical binding is evaluated.
OK, so this is the line No.
One.
This is the first line that says that they do hoist.
I'm going to explain to you how this line says that a variable defined by lexical binding with an initialism
is assigned the value of its initialize assignment expression when the lexical binding is evaluated,
not when the variable is created.
So what it means that whenever we assign a value to a declaration using let and contest, the lexical
binding only is evaluated when the assignment of that value is given, not when the variable is created.
So there are two purposes here.
The first passes when the variable is created, the second pass is when the lexical binding is evaluated.
All right.
So what I'm going to do here, I'm going to paste in a comment here and I'm going to explain to you
what lexical Idont binding identifier, lexical binding, what these are.
And I'm going to expand this a bit more so to here.
So we have our lexical declaration, which is let or the context.
Then we have our binding identifier.
What is the binding identifier?
It is our lexical binding and then we have our assignment operator and then we have the assignment expression.
So the variable, it says here a variable is defined by a lexical binding.
OK, when an initialise is assigned to the assigned the value of its initialisms assignment expression
when now from here it says when the lexical binding is evaluated, not when the variable is created.
So when the what does it mean?
It means that when the variable is created up until this.
The lexical binding is not evaluated, so it means this is the first pass and when does the lexical
binding evaluate it?
Is that is the second pass, which is that to that lexical binding?
We assign this expression.
So there are two passes as well.
Now, I could go ahead and explain it five more times, but that would not make a difference here,
because this is now this is proven according to the ECMAScript specification and OK, so and it also
says it here.
But generally these the variables are created when they're containing lexical environment is this is
instantiated when there are lexical, when their block is created.
So the variables, they are created when they have a block B, that block is a set of curly braces,
or B, that block like the global scope, but may not be accessed in any way until the variables lexical
binding is evaluated.
So this but this creates the second step, the second process, the first process they're created,
the second process they are accessed, but they should have the lexical binding evaluated.
What is the lexical bindings evaluation?
When the lexical bindings initialize or has an assignment expression, it means that when this identifier,
it has assigned a value.
That's when they are evaluated.
Right.
So there are two passes.
The first pass is when the variable the a statement is declared, the second pass when the statement
is initialized.
So there are two states as well, two passes as well, which means that the letton const they hoist.
Now, why is this like this?
Why should we like why is there a lot of confusion around this around this letter and consed?
Now, the reason I'm just going to tell you there is so first off, there are two points that we should
keep in mind.
Point number one, let const let on const hoist to a block whereas var hoists to a function point.
No to the difference.
Between VA and Let Cons is that now I'm going to give you the difference during the compilation or parsing
when VA creates its variables for the scope.
For example, like let's say we have a book variable, it says now we are talking about the VA.
It says when the scope starts, initialize the book variable to undefined.
So that is the first pass for the VA variable.
And if it has an assignment expression, give it the value of that assignment expression.
Otherwise, keep the book variable as undefined.
So whenever rewrite va VA is actually initially is it is in an undefined state.
But what about letting CONSED now during the compilation or passing stage, will let hoists, let and
concerts, both of them behave in the same way when that and concert host their variables into their
block scope, they say create a location called, for example, sort of created an identifier called,
for example, movie.
All right.
So but do not initialize it.
This is the difference.
Do not initialize it.
It is an on initialize state for var.
I'm just going to write it here because these are really, really critical.
So for var we had and and it is you know what originally, originally it is in an undefined state.
So originally var is in an undefined state.
Let's slash const.
They are originally Aruri.
Originally in and in and on initialised state, so VA is in undefined state and originally let on CONSED,
they are in an on initialised state right now under and being and of course and initialised is is different
than undefined.
Undefined is a primitive data type on initialised means that you cannot touch it, yet it does not get
initialized until in that block you run, you run across a letter.
Kohn's declaration.
It means that we have our assignment expression.
So whenever they created this let const keywords, they sort of they restricted us.
They banned us from ever like think even thinking about this little concept as two passes because we
are going to see an error.
Right.
I can show you that we are going to talk about them in code right now.
I don't want to be it it has been 14 minutes.
But because this lecture is really, really, really important, I don't care if even if it is get even
if it gets 30 minutes, if you want to know, then you have to stick around.
Right.
Have these were so what I'm going to do is I'm just going to write here proof of now we know theoretically
they are they do hoist all three of them, Valette and Consed, but how can we see them in code.
So let's go.
That's the second part of this lecture where we get to the temporal deadzone error and how we can avoid
it.
This is a very like, horrible or horrifying error that you can get in JavaScript.
How can you avoid it?
I'm going to give you the solution for that as well.
So we are going to say proof of Hoy's proof of hoisting are flat and const.
Right, Konsta.
So now we are talking about the proof of that, so how can we prove it?
Now, this is this is actually the easier part, right?
And I think I give you this these three websites are given.
Now, we are going to talk about these two as well.
But first, let's go ahead and let's prove that so we have our temporal dead zone of file open right
here and I'm going to dive right in.
So I'm going to create a variable called VAR with VAR and the variable identifier is book.
And you know what?
I'm just going to copy the value from here and I'm going to paste it here and I'm going to save it.
100 Years of Solitude is the book's name.
I'm going to create a block here.
I'm going to open curly braces.
We don't know whether it is a block or not until we run across a letter or const.
And here I'm going to I'm going to call that book.
I'm going to reference it right here inside the console.
But I'm going to create another variable that is called movie.
And let's put it to Black Panther.
Panther, right, and I'm going to come out of here and I'm going to you know what?
I'm not going to do anything.
So when I save this what word, what what it is that we are going to get.
So this is a block scope right now.
This is not proof of hoisting of lead cause this is proof of something else.
But we are on our way of proving that in concert.
All right.
That they hoist as well.
Now, this is proof that whenever we have a scope, like in this case, we have the block scope.
And whenever this concert, a concert console identifier, cannot find its reference inside the scope
because JavaScript is a lexically scoped language.
And the key to understanding lexically scoped language is that whenever we cannot find a reference to
it to an identifier, that that whole identifier is going to go one level up.
So this is a scope and this is another skill.
This is the global scope.
This is the block scope inside here.
So if that if JavaScript is not a lexically.
Scope language, then this console log book, it should throw an error, but it doesn't, and when we
save it, we are going to get 100 years of solitude, even though this console log is inside this scope,
the scope of this block, why we see 100 years of solitude is not because it's not it doesn't have anything
to do with the hoisting of that unconscious.
No, no, no.
It just has something to do with the lexical nature of JavaScript that says when you cannot find the
source, just move from one level up.
Don't go one line up, one level up.
So from the block scope, this council log just moved to the global scale.
What does it mean?
It means that this constant log is movable now.
And when it is movable, I can check whether or not we have hoisting for Aulet and Consed.
How can we check it?
I'm going to create another variable and I'm going to call it name and in here I'm just going to pass.
And Chadwick
Chadwick Boseman and I'm going to pass in Chadwick.
All right.
And.
Moving on.
We are going to create our scope in here and I'm going to say console, dot, lock and I'm going to
say in here name.
But the difference is this time that I create let I'm going to create a variable name as well and I'm
going to set it to Rosie.
Right.
And I just said it to Rosie.
All right.
Now.
If that doesn't hoist, if let does not hoist, what should we see in here?
We should see in here.
Let me come in this part out.
I'm not going to save it because I don't want to show it to you guys.
I want to go over the theory first, because I told you that these chapters, these three chapters,
they dive very, very deep into the concept of how JavaScript works.
Now, if Leron, if led, doesn't hoist the normally this concept of log, even though there is a letton
here because this console log doesn't have any reference to this console, it should move one level
up.
And when it like moves one level up, like I'm doing air quotes, if it moves one level up as the misconception
misunderstood hoisting suggests, we should see var name this Chadwick be printed inside the console.
And if I say it oops.
If I save it we can see the Chadwicks post.
It is logged.
But what if the console is down here now.
Technically this is the behavior that we should see, like according to the misunderstood hoisting and
according to that line that the MDN says that led and const do not hoist but.
There is a naming collision right here.
That's how I can prove to you that let him hoist, but they hoist in a different way and we are going
to get a TDE error right now.
Now, because the name is right here as well.
And because of the compilation stage, this console log is going to try to access the value of this
name, which is Rowsey, but it will fail.
So let's save it and we get an error and the error is a reference error.
It is not a typo error.
It means that we have not mistyped anything.
It is a reference error.
And why the console log didn't grab the value of Chadwick.
Why it didn't grab it.
Because JavaScript is not an interpretive language.
JavaScript doesn't go line by one before moving to top.
Even though this line is right here.
It referenced this name, but it couldn't get it.
And the reason for that is whenever you create a let.
Variable through let or const, there are two passes, the first pass is going to throw a TDE error
or in this case which this reference error actually belongs to that TDE error.
I'm going to tell you how it belongs to that.
And until it grabs it, until you find the value for that initial for that identifier, you're going
to get this TDE error.
And when you find it like this, that TDE error is gone.
When you can't find it, the TDE error is there, right?
It is there.
Now, this code acts in the same way as if I were to come in this one out.
And if I say cancel that log name.
Now, you can see that we have referenced the identifier.
We have referenced the identifier before the execution of that identifier.
So how VA reacts to this kind of code is it is going to throw it should have thrown an undefined because
this is defined, it is going to grab the value of that.
But if we were to do this, it is going to throw an undefined because this is not defined.
So let's save it.
We still get Chadwick.
Where is it getting Chadwick from?
Because there is no Chadrick in here.
All right.
So I'm just going to go ahead and remove this.
And we are going to save it.
We can see that because this is in this state of undefined, we don't get anything.
We just get like an empty string because this is not defined, this variable.
And when we go ahead, I'm just going to control them.
And when we define it, we are going to get still.
We are not going to get anything.
All right.
But if I bring down the console log, I don't know why it is throwing.
We we do get it in the console log there.
So what I'm going to do is let's go ahead and open up a life server one more time.
It's working buggy and it is defeating my point right here.
So let's say that we do get Chadwick here now until Chadwick is defined.
But when Chadwick is not defined, we are getting an undefined it means it is in an undefined state.
All right.
I just wrote here it is in an undefined state, but when we do not and we do not give the identifier
off, let that value it is going to be in an initialized state.
And that reference error comes from the initialized state nature of late.
Right.
So I'm just going to go ahead and remove that.
And when I say it now, this is dereference error.
It means that this name was not referenced.
It wasn't.
It notes that there is a name, but it couldn't reference that name by referencing.
I mean, it couldn't get the value from it.
Now, this is decided by the ECMAScript.
Whenever you call that identifier and then you like you go ahead and you declare it later, you're going
to get this error.
This is called a error.
This error is.
Associated with Lett and Consed, and you can see in here, it says, Unlike variables declared with
Vare, which will start with disvalue undefined let variables are not initialized.
They are in an unknown initialized state until their definition is evaluated.
Now, even this text says that there are two passes.
First, the the variable is created, then the their definition is evaluated.
And this is a synonym of this that we had in here.
Very, very simple, accessing the variables before the initial initialization results in a reference
error.
The variable is in a temporal dead zone from the start of that block until initialization is processed.
So you can see that there are two states in here.
The first state is that the variables, the latent const variables are in the TDE zone in the TDE.
From the start of that block, the second stage says when the initialization is process, the TDE is
going to go away.
OK, now you can read all about TDE in here.
All right.
And this reference error actually says that the variable is in the TDE zone.
OK, in the TDE.
OK, it says zone at the end, so I don't have to say it again.
So that's why we get it.
If the variables were not in TDE, then this console log would have very easily traveled to top and
grabbed the value of Chadwick.
But it didn't because they are in TDE because letton cons do highest, but their hosting is different.
Their hosting is not in an undefined state.
It is in an initialized state.
And when something is in an initialized state, this is the error that you are going to get.
Unquit uncaught reference error cannot access named before initialization.
It didn't say that name is not present.
It just said we cannot access it.
It didn't say like we cannot get it, we cannot access it before initialization.
So let s present, but we cannot get the value of it.
So there are two states here, two stages.
The same thing goes for const as well.
And if I come down here, I believe I can find it.
OK.
Uh hmm.
Consed common our area, all the considerations about the TDE apply to both Lett and Consed, so this
to act in the same way.
And there is another thing that I want to discuss here.
And then we are going to wrap this lecture up.
It has been 30 minutes.
And why do we have this, the TDE.
You might ask, OK, you might have never heard of it before, but and these are the resources for that.
Feel free to go over them.
And before even explaining that, what I'm going to do is I'm going to come down here and I'm going
to come and this one out and I'm going to say, Consed, I just want to show you that what consed you
are going to get the same error.
Let's save it from here.
We can still see that from line number 34.
We have a reference error.
No initialization has happened.
All right.
So.
Why this?
What's up with this I'm going to give you like I'm going to explain this in a story kind of thing,
and then we are done we are done with the all of theory and everything.
I just want to give you a history on the TDE excuse me, a very, very short one.
Now, TDE, surprisingly, was actually created for Consed, TDE was not created for that.
Now the reason for that is I'm going to give you like the mental picture and I hope you are following.
All right.
One Consed as of year 2015 was created as a verbal declaration method when Konsta was created.
At first, if CONSED was to behave as var that when CONSED is created, it means that Consed cannot
be reassigned.
The variables with consed they cannot be redeclared, they cannot be reassigned.
Right.
And to think like const variables, first off they have an undefined state and then they have an initialized
state.
It would mean that the concepts actually they beat the point of being consed.
It means that they have two different kinds of states, but that beats the point of const const only
has one state and you cannot change it constantly has one value.
If you change the value you're going to get an error.
So that was the problem with CONSED and the problem with constant var there.
The the war between VA and these other newer methods started from there and because VA it has an undefined
state and then when it is initialized it has a defined state.
But const if we talk about consed in this manner consed has an undefined state.
When it is initialized it has a defined state.
It means that it is switching values, it is switching states.
How can it be a constant if it is switching stuff.
That's why they created a TDE, a temporal dead zone that you cannot do it.
And they said OK, if you do this with const, if you initialize, if you declare a const but not initialize
it, you're going to see an error.
And I'm just going to in this one out.
And if I come here it means like this.
So we are just declaring yet we are not initializing it and we are going to say no.
And if I say it's a syntax error, missing initialization const declaration and the reason that they
did this happens, the syntax error happens is because const cannot have two different values.
A constant identifier cannot have two different valid values.
So this case proves it because number is declared and then I go ahead.
And if I say const number.
I always mistype mistype consed consed no, and I set it to like, let's say one and then I changed
my mind, I said it to two and we are going to we are going to see error.
But if I change this to let we are not going to see any error.
OK, so like this, if I were to do let's grab this, let we are not going to see any error, we are
going to see.
Of course.
Let's go ahead.
UNcancel lock.
So I just proved this point, we are going to see number two, but if I change this to CONSED, we are
going to CNR because whenever you declare a variable with CONSED, you have to initialize it.
It means that the const cannot switch, states cannot switch values.
So how, how can we.
They thought, OK, how can we make sure that this problem doesn't happen.
Then they created this tde that whenever you initial you declare a variable with const originally it
is and it is in the TDE until you initialize it and if you do not initialize it you are going to get
an error.
Very, very simple.
And when they did that for CONSED, they said unfortunately or fortunately, I will let you, I will
let you to be the judge.
They said that we might have TDE for that as well.
That's how they decided upon TDE for let as well.
Now, at the end of this lecture, I just want to give you one way, one definitive way to avoid the
TDE, OK?
And that is put all of your left and const declarations at the top of this block and that where you
will never encounter it easier whenever you're working in the global scope or inside a block scope or
any in any scope where you have led and const make sure to put him at the top of your application at
the top of your code to avoid this error.
And you will never encounter that, you will never that's why in almost all of our applications, we
had all of our Willetton concert concerts at the top of the application.
All right, so with this lecture, 34 minutes and something, our entire discussion of how JavaScript
works and there are a lot of more, there are a lot more things that I might I might add, on the future
to this course based on how you are going to react to these three chapters of the JavaScript, advanced
JavaScript, the inner workings part one, two, three.
I might add more parts to this, but first, I have to know your reaction.
And I have to know that if you want more theory, I could add more.
But for now, we are done.
And I congratulate you because now you understand truly what the difference is between varlet consed,
how they are compiled, how they're executed, what what actually what actually hoisting is, where
are the references for hoisting, how can you find it and how you can use it to your own advantage.
So this is going to be it for this lecture and for this chapter.
I hope you're not getting you have not gotten bored and I hope you have enjoyed this lecture.
So see you guys in the next chapter.